# Networking

Currently most operating systems support a variety of **networking protocols, hardware, and applications** for using them. This means that computers running dissimilar operating systems can **participate in a common network for sharing resources such as computing, files, printers, and scanners** using either wired or wireless connections. Networks can essentially allow a computer's operating system to **access the resources of a remote computer** to support the same functions as it could if those resources were connected directly to the local computer. This includes everything from **simple communication**, to **using networked file systems** or even **sharing another computer's graphics or sound hardware**. Some network services allow the resources of a computer to be accessed transparently, such as **SSH** which **allows networked users direct access to a computer's command line interface.**

**Client/server networking** allows a program on a computer, called a client, to connect via a network to another computer, called a server. Servers offer (or host) various services to other network computers and users. These services are usually provided through **ports or numbered access points** beyond the server's **IP address**. **Each port number is usually associated with a maximum of one running program, which is responsible for handling requests to that port. A daemon, being a user program, can in turn access the local hardware resources of that computer by passing requests to the operating system kernel.**

Many operating systems support one or more vendor-specific or open networking protocols as well, for example, SNA on IBM systems, DECnet on systems from Digital Equipment Corporation, and Microsoft-specific protocols (SMB) on Windows. Specific protocols for specific tasks may also be supported such as NFS for file access. Protocols like ESound, or esd can be easily extended over the network to provide sound from local applications, on a remote system's sound hardware. 

source : https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operating_system
